---
from: Munich
to: Ehrwald
day: 1
date: August 28, 2025
theme: Questionable, is climate change still questioned?
# Weather options: sunny, partly cloudy, cloudy, rainy, stormy, thunder, snowy, foggy
weather: rainy
temp: 23
distance: 127
gain: 1360
duration: 5h 46m
burn: 2411
mayors: 2
flats: 2
route_video: Llnxp7k3qWM
status: live
# status options: draft, live
---


**The First Stage of the Glorious Glacier Ride**

Well-rested and full of motivatie, we started our journey from our hotel in Munich. Though, just three minutes in, we had our first flat tire. So, we had to continue on foot to Marienplatz. Fortunately the "surgery" on the bike was quick and painless, and we were soon able to enjoy a delicious breakfast.
Then, the real adventure began. A motivating speech from a Munich city council member and a representative of the European Climate Pact gave us an extra boost of energy. With an informal countdown, we officially rolled out of Munich, heading toward Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The first kilometres were smooth and relaxed - a perfect warm-up to enjoy riding together as a group. It didn't take long until our lunch break arrived. Recharged with a solid dose of carbohydrates in the form of pizza or pasta, we set off on the final stretch of today's stage. Our weather coordinator's forecast proved to ne spot-on - the rain began. But despite the steady downpour, we arrived in Ehrwald in high spirits. There, the mayor welcomed us and provided valuable insight into the local impact of the rapidly melting *Zugspitze glacier*.
Afterward, we shared our experiences with the regional TV station before heading to our accomodation in Lermoos. Tonight, we rest in the shadow of the Zugspitze, recharging for tomorrow's ride to San Valentin auf der Heide.
**Stage 2 will challenge us with around 120km and 2000 meters of climbing, including the stunning Reschen Pass!**


