---
from: Sankt Valentin
to: Livigno
day: 3
date: August 30, 2025
theme: Unsustainable, What systems are breaking down?
# Weather options: sunny, partly cloudy, cloudy, rainy, stormy, thunder, snowy, foggy
weather: sunny
temp: 25
distance: 106
gain: 3365
duration: 5h 53m
burn: 0
mayors: 1
flats: 1
route_video: BVvAq-rn2-o
status: live
# status options: draft, live
---

**The Third Stage of the Glorious Glacier Ride, Stelvio Foscagno**

Its 10:30 in the evening and the riders are “total loss” in hotel Piccolo Mondo, located in the tax-free zone of Livigno. We were eating our breakfast this morning in Sankt Valentin auf der Heide, when the mayor showed up to give us some encouragement for the day to come. He agreed with the urgency of “our message”.

At 10am it was finally time to set out. After a beautiful descent, which was masterfully laid out by our course director, we arrived at the bottom of the Stelvio, but not without problems. It turned out that the undersigned had a flat. There was some suspicion of foul play, perhaps just to sneak in a little extra rest... With combined forces – thanks for that! – it was fortunately fixed just in time.

It was the day of the Stelvio Ride, which meant cars (including our camera support car) weren’t allowed on it. The weather, despite the cold, was still perfect for tackling this classic. We found ourselves back at lunch in the charming town of Bormio.

Then came part two: the Col di Foscagno. With heavy legs, we took on the climb, and that’s where a new story was written: Pepijn fell in love with Demi Vollering, after leading out the sprint for her with his very last bit of energy at the Foscagno finish. Perhaps she – we’re allowed to call her Demi – will even fire the starting shot for the 4th stage of the GGR tomorrow morning.

After a well-deserved shower, and with everyone luckily safe and sound, the beautiful stage was completed. The day ended with a lovely dinner, generously offered by Nathalie and Max – *a grande merci!* We enjoyed it to the fullest and shared plenty of laughs.

**Tour director of today, Jos**

