---
from: Thusis
to: Andermatt
day: 5
date: September 1, 2025
theme: Disconnected, Why do we feel powerless or numb?
# Weather options: sunny, partly cloudy, cloudy, rainy, stormy, thunder, snowy, foggy
weather: stormy
temp: 25
distance: 110
gain: 2640
duration: 6h 06m
burn: 0
mayors: 1
flats: 0
route_video: TZEOKMHJAB8
status: live
# status options: draft, live
---

**Thusis - Andermatt**

Day 5 started with a nice surprise. Joost had organized a meetup with *Ivo Rohrer, the mayor of Thusis.* When we arrived at the village center, we were greeted with an applause from a large crowd of people. Mr Rohrer had invited the entire municipal office for a small ceremony. He gave a speech telling us about a beautiful hike he did over a glacier 10 years ago; the same route can now be done without any ice. After Joost convinced him to sink some carbon on the spot, we were sent off on our ride with a Gipfeli (Swiss croissant).

The route started easy and relatively flat through a valley to Bonaduz. The first climb of the day led through a canyon with an impressive river bed. The weather wasn’t as beautiful as the day before but the clouds and fog created a special atmosphere and nice views. A second climb brought us to a small mountain village called Castris, where Sylvia, a colleague of Nathalie, invited the entire group to her home for Bündner Nusstorte. We enjoyed this local speciality in a cozy room of a historical building with the ceiling so low we were tempted to keep our bike helmets on for safety.

A steep descent with narrow corners led back to a main road where we made our way towards the challenge of the day - the Oberalppass. Before tackling these 600 steep vertical meters, we had lunch in an art cafe in Disentis, which was slightly overwhelmed with the appetite of twelve hungry cyclists.

The *Oberalppass* proved more difficult than expected, as the weather turned for the worse during the winding serpentines. Tired and frozen one after the other reached the light tower at the top which marks the source of the river Rhein. Fortunately a restaurant served hot chocolate to warm up and lighten the mood. However, we still had a cold and wet descent to *Andermatt* ahead of us.

The day ended as it started - with a nice surprise. As soon as we hit the road, shivering and somewhat miserable, the clouds broke, the sun came through, and we rode down the final high-speed turns into Andermatt beneath a beautiful rainbow.
