---
from: Andermatt
to: Mörel-Filet
day: 6
date: September 2, 2025
theme: Collapseable, Are we headed for collapse—or intervention?
# Weather options: sunny, partly cloudy, cloudy, rainy, stormy, thunder, snowy, foggy
weather: rainy
temp: 25
distance: 115
gain: 3499
duration: 6h 03m
burn: 0
mayors: 1
flats: 0
route_video: Tzr_Eb2z0Vc
status: live
# status options: draft, live
---

**Andermatt - Mörel-Filet**

Day 6 was the day of *the Furkapass* and *the Rhône glacier*.  At 8:20 we got a warm welcome by *Peter Baumann, the mayor of Andermatt* and a delegation of Running 4 Climate, who runned a part of the stage. After the team of Andermatt Swiss Alps equipped us with the original Alpenbrevet cycling socks and some energy bars for on the way, we could take off. 

The peloton was strengthened by two scientists of the Glaciology department of ETH Zurich.  Although Aaron and Christophe have shared an office at ETH, this was the first occasion to cycle together. And they had a good reason, because stage 6 was meant to be *one of the most impressive stages* of the Glorious Glacier Ride.

The first (and only) obstacle of the day was the magnificent *Furkapass*. A 12 km climb to gain 888 meters of altitude. After the Furkapass the peloton stopped at the once famous *Hotel Belvédère*.  It is known from the car chase scene in the James Bond movie *Goldfinger* from 1964. By then *the Rhone glacier* was still below the hotel, but since the glacier retreated, tourism shrunk which has left the hotel closed for the last 10 years…

Visiting the Rhône glacier was unmasking. The stage that once held a spectacular ice-cave, now looked like a war zone. Despite the huge blankets, the Rhône Glacier has experienced a significant acceleration in ice loss in recent years, with particularly severe melting since 2022. In just the past two years (2022–2023), Swiss glaciers overall lost about 10% of their volume, and the Rhône Glacier’s annual melt rate has been measured at 2.5% between 2023 and 2024, which exceeds the previous decade’s average.

*Christophe Ogier* gave a short but effective lecture on the retreat and concluded that although the current big melt, still 50% of the glacier could be saved if we take the measures needed to meet the Paris Climate Agreement.
We took a couple of photos, made some videos and took of for the descent to Visp, our base for the next 2 days!

